Migrate data to serverless using logstash (#4039)
elastic/docs-content: manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md

---
navigation_title: Migrate Elastic Cloud Hosted data to Serverless with Logstash
applies_to:
  stack: ga
  deployment:
    ess: ga
    ece: ga
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
  - id: logstash
  - id: cloud-hosted
  - id: cloud-enterprise

>   - id: cloud-kubernetes

Reviewer: Same here. The steps might work for ECE and ECK deployments, but that's not mentioned on the page, so perhaps these two product types shouldn't be included here.

---

# Migrate {{ech}} data to {{serverless-full}} with {{ls}} [migrate-with-ls]

[{{ls}}](logstash://reference/index.md) is a data collection engine that uses a large ecosystem of [plugins](logstash-docs-md://lsr/index.md) to collect, process, and forward data from a variety of sources to a variety of destinations. Here we focus on using the [Elasticsearch input](logstash-docs-md://lsr/plugins-inputs-elasticsearch.md) plugin to read from your {{ech}} deployment, and the [Elasticsearch output](logstash-docs-md://lsr/plugins-outputs-elasticsearch.md) plugin to write to your {{{serverless-full}} project.

Familiarity with {{ech}}, {{es}}, and {{ls}} is helpful, but not required. 

:::{admonition} Basic migration
This guide focuses on a basic data migration scenario for moving static data from an {{ech}} deployment to a {{serverless-full}} project. 

> Dashboards, visualizations, pipelines, templates, and other {{kib}} assets must be migrated separately using the {{kib}} [export/import APIs](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/group/endpoint-saved-objects) or recreated manually.

Reviewer 2: Not just separately, but templates, data stream definitions, ILM policies, should be in place before the migration begins, while visual components can be deployed afterwards.

Author: @jsvd, clarification to Kibana assets is in. Dd you want to see this again before I merge it?

  - id: cloud-kubernetes
---

# Migrate {{ech}} data to {{serverless-full}} with {{ls}} [migrate-with-ls]

You can use {{ls}} to migrate data from an {{ech}} deployment to an {{serverless-full}} project. 
Familiarity with {{ech}}, {{es}}, and {{ls}} is helpful, but not required. 

:::{admonition} Basic migration
This guide focuses on a basic data migration scenario for moving static data from an {{ech}} deployment to a {{serverless-full}} project. Dashboards, visualizations, pipelines, templates, and other {{kib}} assets must be migrated separately using the {{kib}} [export/import APIs](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/group/endpoint-saved-objects) or recreated manually.
:::

## Prerequisites [migrate-prereqs]

- {{ech}} deployment with data to migrate
- [{{serverless-full}}](/deploy-manage/deploy/elastic-cloud/serverless.md) project configured and running
- {{ls}} [installed](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/logstash) on your local machine or server 
- API keys in {{ls}} format for authentication with both deployments

## Process overview [migration-overview]
* [Configure {{ls}}](#configure-ls)
* [Run {{ls}}](#run-ls)
* [Verify data migration](#verify-migration)

> ## Step 1: Configure {{ls}} [configure-ls]

Reviewer 3: Should the first step be a brief blurb about Logstash? Incl. a link to installation or quick start docs?

Create a new {{ls}} [pipeline configuration file](logstash://reference/creating-logstash-pipeline.md) (_migration.conf_) with these settings:

```
input {
  elasticsearch {
    cloud_id => "<HOSTED_DEPLOYMENT_CLOUD_ID>"  # Your Hosted deployment's Cloud ID
    api_key  => "<HOSTED_API_KEY>"              # Your Hosted deployment API key
    index    => "index_pattern*"                # Your index or pattern (such as logs-*,metrics-*)
    docinfo  => true
  }
}

> 

Reviewer 3: I think I agree with Rob here. If we separate, we can explain a little better what the user is doing.

> 

Reviewer 3: I agree with Rob here. I already said this above, but I think we're a long way from over complicating things. I don't think we should expect everyone using this process to be knowledgable about Logstash. IMO, Breaking this up allows us to provide more context without things getting too busy. For example:

<img width="819" height="609" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ddbe81df-b535-4773-8261-33b403b29629" />

    api_key     => "<SERVERLESS_API_KEY>"                  # API key (in Logstash format) for your Serverless project
    ssl_enabled => true
    index       => "%{[@metadata][input][elasticsearch][_index]}" # Instruction to retain original index names
  }

  stdout { codec => rubydebug { metadata => true } }
}
```

:::{admonition} Tips

- When you create an [API key for {{ls}}](logstash://reference/connecting-to-serverless.md#api-key), be sure to select **Logstash** from the **API key** format dropdown. This option formats the API key in the correct `id:api_key` format required by {{ls}}.

- To migrate multiple indexes at the same time, use a wildcard in the index name. 
For example, `index => "logs-*"` migrates all indices starting with `logs-`.
:::

## Step 2: Run {{ls}} [run-ls]
 
Start {{ls}}:

```
bin/logstash -f migration.conf
```

## Step 3: Verify data migration [verify-migration]

After running {{ls}}, verify that the data has been successfully migrated:

1. Log in to your {{serverless-full}} project.
2. Navigate to Index Management and select the index.
3. Verify that the migrated data is visible.

<br>
:::{admonition} Advanced migration
:applies_to: stack: preview

> {{ls}} can handle more advanced migrations with field tracking settings in the [Elasticsearch input](https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/logstash/plugins/plugins-inputs-elasticsearch) plugin. The field tracking feature adds cursor-like pagination functionality that can support more complex migrations and ongoing data migration over time.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{ls}} can handle more advanced migrations with field tracking settings in the [Elasticsearch input](https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/logstash/plugins/plugins-inputs-elasticsearch) plugin. The field tracking feature adds cursor-like pagination functionality that allows more advanced migrations features, including the ability to resume migration tasks after a Logstash restart, and support for ongoing data migration over time.
```

Reviewer 3: Why not also add these here?

> * `size`  - Controls how many documents are retrieved per scroll. Larger values increase throughput but use more memory....
> * `slices`  - Enables parallel reads from the source index...
> * `scroll`  - Adjusts how long Elasticsearch keeps the scroll context alive...

Reviewer 3: And do we want to put this up in the configuration step? It's an afterthought here that most folks won't see until after they've already finished the above steps.
